docs/move-en.md, before:

---
share: true
title: Moving to the new Geobla
---

What you need to know to master the move to the new Geobla:

- [Basic information about the new version](.md#basic-information-about-the-new-version)
- [Why the change to the new Geobla?](.md#why-the-change-to-the-new-geobla)
- [Where can I find what in the new Geobla?](.md#where-can-i-find-what-in-the-new-geobla)
	- [News from the community](.md#where-can-i-find-what-in-the-new-geoblanews-from-the-community)
	- [The map](.md#where-can-i-find-what-in-the-new-geoblathe-map)
	- [User list](.md#where-can-i-find-what-in-the-new-geoblauser-list)
	- [My profile](.md#where-can-i-find-what-in-the-new-geoblamy-profile)
	- [Like me](.md#where-can-i-find-what-in-the-new-geoblalike-me)
	- [Discussion forums](.md#where-can-i-find-what-in-the-new-geobladiscussion-forums)
	- [Notifications](.md#where-can-i-find-what-in-the-new-geoblanotifications)
	- [New post](.md#where-can-i-find-what-in-the-new-geoblanew-post)
	- [Place functions](.md#where-can-i-find-what-in-the-new-geoblaplace-functions)
	- [Settings](.md#where-can-i-find-what-in-the-new-geoblasettings)
- [New functions](.md#new-functions)
	- [Personal messages](.md#new-functionspersonal-messages)
	- [Bookmarks](.md#new-functionsbookmarks)
	- [Share / boost post](.md#new-functionsshare-boost-post)
- [Missing functions](.md#missing-functions)
- [The place bot post](.md#the-place-bot-post)


## Basic information about the new version 

The new Geobla is completely redeveloped and is now based on the code of Mastodon, a social media software that already has over 10 million users. Unlike Facebook or Twitter, Mastodon is non-profit as well as open source. It is also not centralised, but consists of many individual websites. However, the structure is such that all pages are networked with each other. So you can also follow users who are registered on another Mastodon site. This interaction even works with other services in the so-called "Fediverse", such as Pixelfed or Pleroma. Learn more about Mastodon here and about the general topic of Fediverse here.  
  
## Why the change to the new Geobla?  

The previous Geobla incl. the mobile apps was developed by me (Andreas) alone. It has turned out that the maintenance and care has taken on such a complexity that it no longer works easily on the side. Switching to Mastodon has two advantages: 1. there are more than 50 people working on Mastodon, the system is always evolving. I can transfer the new code into the new Geobla relatively easily, so it also evolves along with it. Only the map and the places are an add-on module, which is run by me. This makes maintenance easier. Geobla has thus become future-proof. 2. by connecting to Mastodon and Fediverse, Geobla is no longer isolated, but opens up to a community of 10 million other users. This increases the utility value of Geobla.  
  
## Where can I find what in the new Geobla?  

### News from the community

When you log in to the new Geobla, you will land on the start page. This is now automatically the view of all users you follow (in the old Geobla this was the view of all users). The new Geobla has 3 different feeds:

- **Home Icon - The Home View**.
  The default view: only posts from your friends.
- **3 heads icon - All posts**
  The 3 heads icon leads to all posts on Geobla. This was the home view in the old Geobla.
- **Sphere - Everything from the Fediverse**
  This is a completely new view: It shows all contributions from Geobla and from other communities whose author is followed by at least one Geobla member. Here you can find completely new and surprising contributions.

### The map

You will find the map under the familiar map icon, which is located directly under the home button. There you can click on places and see their contributions as well as create a new place.

### User list

- Click on the 3 dots in the menu at the bottom right.
- Then scroll all the way down and click on Profile Directory.

If you do not find yourself in the user list, you have to flip a switch in your user profile, see also [#My Profile](.md#my-profile).

You will find the search for a user under the # symbol on the right in the menu.

### My profile

- Click on your small profile picture at the top right (or the elephant if you have not yet uploaded a profile picture).
- Click on "Edit profile" in the top right-hand corner.
- Upload a profile picture and a title picture
- Activate the option "Recommend account to others" so that you are listed in the list of users.

### Like me

The previous Like link now has a new icon: the star. Click it under a post to Like the post.

### Discussion forums

The new Geobla no longer has discussion forums. But there are hashtags. You can simply start a post and assign a suitable hashtag. For example, countries and cities already have corresponding hashtags automatically. To search for existing posts with hashtags, click on the # symbol in the menu on the right and enter the term in the search field.

### Notifications

You will find these under the same symbol (bell) in the menu on the right. As before, you can receive notifications on your mobile phone or PC if you agree to this.

### New post

You now have two options:

1. post a free message without a link to a place on the map.
   Post something to the community and your friends by clicking on "Publish" in the top right-hand corner and start writing. If you wish, add a pAndreasr hashtag so that more users you don't know yet become aware of your post!
2. check-in / post na a place on the map
   First click on [#The Map](.md#the-map), choose a place or create a new place and then press the button "Post". The only difference to the free post is that this post is automatically assigned to the square.
   Each space has an automatic post under which your own post will appear. You can find more information under 

### Place functions

The functions on a space have remained largely the same. However, you can now manually mark a place as "visited" with the button. If you press the button "Post", the place will automatically be marked as visited. The live report is no longer available. To do this, simply write a normal post under the square.

### Settings

Click on the cogwheel in the menu at the bottom. On large screens / tablets you will now see a whole series of submenus on the left with many new setting options.

**On mobile phones, you also need to tap the three buttons at the top right to access the full options. 
   
## New functions

### Personal messages

You can now send personal messages to other users. 
- Click on a user and then on the button with the 3 dots on the right. Select "Direct message" there. You can add more names if you wish, each with the @ symbol, to create a group.
- To see all personal messages, click on the @ symbol on the right side of the menu.

### Bookmarks

You can bookmark individual posts so that you can find them again later. To do this, click on the corresponding symbol under the post. You can find all posts saved in this way by clicking on the bookmark symbol in the menu on the right.

### Share / boost post

Under each post is the symbol for sharing/boosting (two interlocking arrows). With this button you can forward someone else's post to your own friends. It will then also appear in your profile.

## Missing functions

The following functions from the old Geobla are still missing and will be added soon:

- Search for places on the map.
- Show places of a user on the map

## The place bot post

Whenever a new place is created, Geobla creates an automatic bot post to the place, which looks like this for example:

![botpost.png](botpost.png#)
**Example of a bot post**

Here you can perform the following actions:
- Click on a **free area within the post without getting stuck on a link** You will then see all posts (with photos) from that place.
- Click on the map link "geobla.net...." to open the map and jump directly to the location of the place. From there, you can again access all posts on the site by clicking on the name in the bubble.
- Click on the username starting with @ at the top to go to the profile of the user who created the square.
- Click on one of the hashtags to see all the posts for that country, region or place.

Commit message:

[PUBLISHER] Merge #31
* PUSH NOTE : Déménagement vers la nouvelle Geobla.md

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : botpost.png

* PUSH NOTE : move-en.md

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : botpost.png

* PUSH NOTE : move-de.md

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : botpost.png

* PUSH NOTE : index.md

docs/move-en.md, after:

---
share: true
title: Moving to the new Geobla
---

What you need to know to master the move to the new Geobla:

- [Basic information about the new version](.md#basic-information-about-the-new-version)
- [Why the change to the new Geobla?](.md#why-the-change-to-the-new-geobla)
- [Where can I find what in the new Geobla?](.md#where-can-i-find-what-in-the-new-geobla)
	- [#Where can I find what in the new Geobla?#News from the community](.md#where-can-i-find-what-in-the-new-geoblanews-from-the-community)
	- [The map](.md#where-can-i-find-what-in-the-new-geoblathe-map)
	- [User list](.md#where-can-i-find-what-in-the-new-geoblauser-list)
	- [My profile](.md#where-can-i-find-what-in-the-new-geoblamy-profile)
	- [Like me](.md#where-can-i-find-what-in-the-new-geoblalike-me)
	- [Discussion forums](.md#where-can-i-find-what-in-the-new-geobladiscussion-forums)
	- [Notifications](.md#where-can-i-find-what-in-the-new-geoblanotifications)
	- [New post](.md#where-can-i-find-what-in-the-new-geoblanew-post)
	- [Place functions](.md#where-can-i-find-what-in-the-new-geoblaplace-functions)
	- [Settings](.md#where-can-i-find-what-in-the-new-geoblasettings)
- [New functions](.md#new-functions)
	- [Personal messages](.md#new-functionspersonal-messages)
	- [Bookmarks](.md#new-functionsbookmarks)
	- [Share / boost post](.md#new-functionsshare-boost-post)
- [Missing functions](.md#missing-functions)
- [The place bot post](.md#the-place-bot-post)


## Basic information about the new version 

The new Geobla is completely redeveloped and is now based on the code of Mastodon, a social media software that already has over 10 million users. Unlike Facebook or Twitter, Mastodon is non-profit as well as open source. It is also not centralised, but consists of many individual websites. However, the structure is such that all pages are networked with each other. So you can also follow users who are registered on another Mastodon site. This interaction even works with other services in the so-called "Fediverse", such as Pixelfed or Pleroma. Learn more about Mastodon here and about the general topic of Fediverse here.  
  
## Why the change to the new Geobla?  

The previous Geobla incl. the mobile apps was developed by me (Andreas) alone. It has turned out that the maintenance and care has taken on such a complexity that it no longer works easily on the side. Switching to Mastodon has two advantages: 1. there are more than 50 people working on Mastodon, the system is always evolving. I can transfer the new code into the new Geobla relatively easily, so it also evolves along with it. Only the map and the places are an add-on module, which is run by me. This makes maintenance easier. Geobla has thus become future-proof. 2. by connecting to Mastodon and Fediverse, Geobla is no longer isolated, but opens up to a community of 10 million other users. This increases the utility value of Geobla.  
  
## Where can I find what in the new Geobla?  

### News from the community

When you log in to the new Geobla, you will land on the start page. This is now automatically the view of all users you follow (in the old Geobla this was the view of all users). The new Geobla has 3 different feeds:

- **Home Icon - The Home View**.
  The default view: only posts from your friends.
- **3 heads icon - All posts**
  The 3 heads icon leads to all posts on Geobla. This was the home view in the old Geobla.
- **Sphere - Everything from the Fediverse**
  This is a completely new view: It shows all contributions from Geobla and from other communities whose author is followed by at least one Geobla member. Here you can find completely new and surprising contributions.

### The map

You will find the map under the familiar map icon, which is located directly under the home button. There you can click on places and see their contributions as well as create a new place.

### User list

- Click on the 3 dots in the menu at the bottom right.
- Then scroll all the way down and click on Profile Directory.

If you do not find yourself in the user list, you have to flip a switch in your user profile, see also [#My Profile](.md#my-profile).

You will find the search for a user under the # symbol on the right in the menu.

### My profile

- Click on your small profile picture at the top right (or the elephant if you have not yet uploaded a profile picture).
- Click on "Edit profile" in the top right-hand corner.
- Upload a profile picture and a title picture
- Activate the option "Recommend account to others" so that you are listed in the list of users.

### Like me

The previous Like link now has a new icon: the star. Click it under a post to Like the post.

### Discussion forums

The new Geobla no longer has discussion forums. But there are hashtags. You can simply start a post and assign a suitable hashtag. For example, countries and cities already have corresponding hashtags automatically. To search for existing posts with hashtags, click on the # symbol in the menu on the right and enter the term in the search field.

### Notifications

You will find these under the same symbol (bell) in the menu on the right. As before, you can receive notifications on your mobile phone or PC if you agree to this.

### New post

You now have two options:

1. post a free message without a link to a place on the map.
   Post something to the community and your friends by clicking on "Publish" in the top right-hand corner and start writing. If you wish, add a pAndreasr hashtag so that more users you don't know yet become aware of your post!
2. check-in / post na a place on the map
   First click on [#The Map](.md#the-map), choose a place or create a new place and then press the button "Post". The only difference to the free post is that this post is automatically assigned to the square.
   Each space has an automatic post under which your own post will appear. You can find more information under 

### Place functions

The functions on a space have remained largely the same. However, you can now manually mark a place as "visited" with the button. If you press the button "Post", the place will automatically be marked as visited. The live report is no longer available. To do this, simply write a normal post under the square.

### Settings

Click on the cogwheel in the menu at the bottom. On large screens / tablets you will now see a whole series of submenus on the left with many new setting options.

**On mobile phones, you also need to tap the three buttons at the top right to access the full options. 
   
## New functions

### Personal messages

You can now send personal messages to other users. 
- Click on a user and then on the button with the 3 dots on the right. Select "Direct message" there. You can add more names if you wish, each with the @ symbol, to create a group.
- To see all personal messages, click on the @ symbol on the right side of the menu.

### Bookmarks

You can bookmark individual posts so that you can find them again later. To do this, click on the corresponding symbol under the post. You can find all posts saved in this way by clicking on the bookmark symbol in the menu on the right.

### Share / boost post

Under each post is the symbol for sharing/boosting (two interlocking arrows). With this button you can forward someone else's post to your own friends. It will then also appear in your profile.

## Missing functions

The following functions from the old Geobla are still missing and will be added soon:

- Search for places on the map.
- Show places of a user on the map

## The place bot post

Whenever a new place is created, Geobla creates an automatic bot post to the place, which looks like this for example:

![botpost.png](botpost.png#)
**Example of a bot post**

Here you can perform the following actions:
- Click on a **free area within the post without getting stuck on a link** You will then see all posts (with photos) from that place.
- Click on the map link "geobla.net...." to open the map and jump directly to the location of the place. From there, you can again access all posts on the site by clicking on the name in the bubble.
- Click on the username starting with @ at the top to go to the profile of the user who created the square.
- Click on one of the hashtags to see all the posts for that country, region or place.
